README.md, before:

multiTV custom template variable
================================================================================

Transform template variables into a sortable multi item list for the MODX Evolution content management framework

Events example:

![Eventlist example](/Jako/multiTV/blob/master/multitv.events.png?raw=true)

Images example:

![Images example](/Jako/multiTV/blob/master/multitv.images.png?raw=true)

Part 1: custom template variable
================================================================================

Features:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
With this code a MODX Evo template variable could be transformed into a sortable multi item list
  
Installation:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Upload all files into the new folder *assets/tvs/multitv*
2. Create a new template variable with imput type *custom input* (if you name this template variable *multidemo* it will use the multidemo config file)
3. Insert the following code into the *input option values* 
```
@INCLUDE/assets/tvs/multitv/multitv.customtv.php
```
4. If you want to modify the multiTV with ManagerManager you have to patch the file `mm.inc.php` and insert 
```
case 'custom_tv':
```
in line 136 just before the line 
```
$t = 'textarea';
```
(Note 4) 

Options:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
All options for a custom template variable are set in a config file in the folder *configs* with the same name as the template variable (otherwise the default config is used) and *.config.inc.php* as extension

The display of the input fields in the multi field list could be set in `$settings['display']` to *horizontal* (events example), *vertical* (images example) or *single*. Create a custom template variable called *event* for a horizontal example. A multiTV with single display configuration contains only one list element. 

The input fields of one list element could be defined in `$settings['fields']`. This variable contains an array of fieldnames and each fieldname contains an array of field properties.

Property | Description | Default
---- | ----------- | -------
caption | caption (horizontal) or label (vertical) for the input | -
type | type of the input (could be set to all MODX input types - without url and richtext - and thumb for thumbnail display of image tvs - see images config for thumb) | text
elements | could be set according to the input option values of a normal MODX template variable i.e. for a dropdown with all documents in the MODX root: ``@SELECT `pagetitle`, `id` FROM `modx_site_content` WHERE parent = 0 ORDER BY `menuindex` ASC`` | -
default | default value for the input. This value could contain calculated parts. There are two placeholders available: `{i}` contains an autoincremented index, `{alias}` contains the alias of the edited document. | -
thumbof | name of an image input. a thumbnail of the selected image will be rendered into this area | -
width | the width of the input (only used if the display of the list element is horizontal) | 100

* Supported MODX input types: text, rawtext, email, number, textareamini, textarea, rawtextarea, htmlarea, date, dropdown, listbox, listbox-multiple, checkbox, option, image, file

The default output templates for the snippet could be defined in `$settings['templates']`. 

Property | Description | Default
---- | ----------- | -------
rowTpl | default row template chunk for the snippet output. Could be changed in snippet call. See snippet description for placeholders | -
outerTpl | default outer template chunk for the snippet output. Could be changed in snippet call. See snippet description for placeholders | -

The other configurations for one multiTV could be defined in `$settings['configuration']`

Property | Description | Default
---- | ----------- | -------
enablePaste | The multiTV could contain *paste table data* link that displays a paste box. In this box you could paste Word/HTML table clipboard data, Google Docs table clipboard data and csv data. | TRUE 
csvseparator | column separator for csv clipboard table data. The csv clipboard table data should contain a new line for each row. | , 

See the *multidemo* config for all usable settings.

Part 2: multiTV Snippet
================================================================================

Installation:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Create a new snippet called multiTV with the following snippet code

    <?php
    return include(MODX_BASE_PATH.'assets/tvs/multitv/multitv.snippet.php');
    ?>

Usage:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Call the snippet like this (the parameters *docid*, *display*, *rows*, *toPlaceholder* and *randomize* are using the default values in this example call and could be removed from the call)

    [!multiTV?
    &tvName=`event`
    &docid=`[*id*]`
    &outerTpl=`@CODE:<ul>((wrapper))</ul>`
    &rowTpl=`@CODE:<li>((event)), ((location)), ((price))</li>`
    &display=`5`
    &rows=`all`
    &toPlaceholder=`0`
    &randomize=`0`
    !]

Parameters:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Name | Description | Default value
---- | ----------- | -------------
tvName | name of the template variable that contains the multiTV (the column names of the mulitTV are received from the config file) | -
docid | document id where the custom tv is retreived from (i.e. if the multiTV Snippet is called in a Ditto template) | current document id
outerTpl | outer template: chunkname, filename (value starts with `@FILE`) or code (value starts with `@CODE` - placeholders have to be masked by `((` and `))`. (Note 3) | `@CODE:<select name="$tvName">[+wrapper+]</select>` or custom template in template variable config file
rowTpl | row template: chunkname, filename (value starts with `@FILE`) or code (value starts with `@CODE` - placeholders have to be masked by `((` and `))`. (Note 3) | `@CODE:<option value="[+value+]">[+key+]</option>` or custom template in template variable config file
display | count of rows that are displayed, `all` for all rows | 5
rows | comma separated list of row numbers (or all rows) that should be displayed | all
toPlaceholder | the snippet output is assigned to a placeholder named as the template variable (i.e. [+element+]), single items are assigned to placeholders named as the template variable followed by the row number (i.e. [+element.1+]). Normal snippet output is suppressed.  (Note 2) | 0
randomize | random order of displayed rows | 0
published | display only multiTVs of published (1), unpublished (0) or both (2) kind of documents | 1

The default templates for outer template and row template could be defined in the config file for the custom template variable. These custom definitions could be overwritten by *rowTpl* and *outerTpl* in snippet call. Both template chunks are parsed by PHx (chunkie class).

Placeholder rowTpl:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Name | Description
---- | -----------
"fieldname" | each fieldname defined in config file could be used
iteration | contains the row number of the current multiTV element
docid | value of docid parameter or current document id

Placeholder outerTpl:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name | Description
---- | -----------
wrapper | contains the output of all rows
docid | value of docid parameter or current document id

Part 3: PHx modifier
================================================================================
Since the JSON string in multiTV starts with `[[` and ends with `]]` (Note 1), you *can't* check if the multiTV is empty by i.e. ```[*multittvname:ne=``:then=`not empty`*]```. 

But you could to use the PHx modifier in the folder `phx-modifier` in that case. Move the two files to `assets/plugins/phx/modifiers` and call it like this ``[+phx:multitvisempty=`tvname|docid`:then=`xxx`:else=`yyy`+]`` or like this ``[+phx:multitvisnotempty=`tvname|docid`:then=`xxx`:else=`yyy`+]``. If the docid is not set it defaults to current document.

Notes:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. The JSON string the multitv is converted to starts with `[[` and ends with `]]` so the MODX parser thinks it contains a snippet and you can't place the template variable directly in the template.
2. If the snippet output is assigned to placeholder and PHx is installed, the page should be set to uncached and the Snippet should be called cached. Otherwise PHx will 'steal' the placeholders before the Snippet could fill them.
3. MODX does not like `=`, `?` and `&` in snippet parameters. If the template code has to use those signs, put the template code in a chunk or change the default templates in the config file.
4. ManagerManager expects a custom tv field to be an input tag. Because of single and double quote issues the field containing the multiTV value is a textarea.

Commit message:

Update to 1.4.7 CustomTV: better horizontal display with image/file/thumb elements CustomTV: enable clear all by configuration Snippet: `emptyOutput` parameter

README.md, after:

multiTV custom template variable
================================================================================

Transform template variables into a sortable multi item list for the MODX Evolution content management framework

Events example:

![Eventlist example](/Jako/multiTV/blob/master/multitv.events.png?raw=true)

Images example:

![Images example](/Jako/multiTV/blob/master/multitv.images.png?raw=true)

Part 1: custom template variable
================================================================================

Features:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
With this code a MODX Evo template variable could be transformed into a sortable multi item list
  
Installation:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Upload all files into the new folder *assets/tvs/multitv*
2. Create a new template variable with imput type *custom input* (if you name this template variable *multidemo* it will use the multidemo config file)
3. Insert the following code into the *input option values* 
```
@INCLUDE/assets/tvs/multitv/multitv.customtv.php
```
4. If you want to modify the multiTV with ManagerManager you have to patch the file `mm.inc.php` and insert 
```
case 'custom_tv':
```
in line 136 just before the line 
```
$t = 'textarea';
```
(Note 4) 
5. If you want to use multiTV with YAMS you have to patch yams.plugin.inc.php according to the instructions on https://github.com/Jako/multiTV/issues/9#issuecomment-6992127 

Options:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
All options for a custom template variable are set in a config file in the folder *configs* with the same name as the template variable (otherwise the default config is used) and *.config.inc.php* as extension

The display of the input fields in the multi field list could be set in `$settings['display']` to *horizontal* (events example), *vertical* (images example) or *single*. Create a custom template variable called *event* for a horizontal example. A multiTV with single display configuration contains only one list element. 

The input fields of one list element could be defined in `$settings['fields']`. This variable contains an array of fieldnames and each fieldname contains an array of field properties.

Property | Description | Default
---- | ----------- | -------
caption | caption (horizontal) or label (vertical) for the input | -
type | type of the input (could be set to all MODX input types - without url and richtext - and thumb for thumbnail display of image tvs - see images config for thumb) | text
elements | could be set according to the input option values of a normal MODX template variable i.e. for a dropdown with all documents in the MODX root: ``@SELECT `pagetitle`, `id` FROM `modx_site_content` WHERE parent = 0 ORDER BY `menuindex` ASC`` | -
default | default value for the input. This value could contain calculated parts. There are two placeholders available: `{i}` contains an autoincremented index, `{alias}` contains the alias of the edited document. | -
thumbof | name of an image input. a thumbnail of the selected image will be rendered into this area | -
width | the width of the input (only used if the display of the list element is horizontal) | 100

* Supported MODX input types: text, rawtext, email, number, textareamini, textarea, rawtextarea, htmlarea, date, dropdown, listbox, listbox-multiple, checkbox, option, image, file

The default output templates for the snippet could be defined in `$settings['templates']`. 

Property | Description | Default
---- | ----------- | -------
rowTpl | default row template chunk for the snippet output. Could be changed in snippet call. See snippet description for placeholders | -
outerTpl | default outer template chunk for the snippet output. Could be changed in snippet call. See snippet description for placeholders | -

The other configurations for one multiTV could be defined in `$settings['configuration']`

Property | Description | Default
---- | ----------- | -------
enablePaste | The multiTV could contain *paste table data* link that displays a paste box. In this box you could paste Word/HTML table clipboard data, Google Docs table clipboard data and csv data. | TRUE 
enableClear | The multiTV could contain *clear all* link that clears the content of the multiTV | TRUE 
csvseparator | column separator for csv clipboard table data. The csv clipboard table data should contain a new line for each row. | , 

See the *multidemo* config for all usable settings.

Part 2: multiTV Snippet
================================================================================

Installation:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Create a new snippet called multiTV with the following snippet code

    <?php
    return include(MODX_BASE_PATH.'assets/tvs/multitv/multitv.snippet.php');
    ?>

Usage:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Call the snippet like this (most expample parameters are using the default values in this example call and could be removed from the call – parameter tvName is required)

    [!multiTV?
    &tvName=`event`
    &docid=`[*id*]`
    &outerTpl=`@CODE:<ul>((wrapper))</ul>`
    &rowTpl=`@CODE:<li>((event)), ((location)), ((price))</li>`
    &display=`5`
    &rows=`all`
    &toPlaceholder=`0`
    &randomize=`0`
    &published=`1`
    &emptyOutput=`1`
    !]

Parameters:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Name | Description | Default value
---- | ----------- | -------------
tvName | **(required)** name of the template variable that contains the multiTV (the column names of the mulitTV are received from the config file) | -
docid | document id where the custom tv is retreived from (i.e. if the multiTV Snippet is called in a Ditto template) | current document id
outerTpl | outer template: chunkname, filename (value starts with `@FILE`) or code (value starts with `@CODE` - placeholders have to be masked by `((` and `))`. (Note 3) | `@CODE:<select name="$tvName">[+wrapper+]</select>` or custom template in template variable config file
rowTpl | row template: chunkname, filename (value starts with `@FILE`) or code (value starts with `@CODE` - placeholders have to be masked by `((` and `))`. (Note 3) | `@CODE:<option value="[+value+]">[+key+]</option>` or custom template in template variable config file
display | count of rows that are displayed, `all` for all rows | 5
rows | comma separated list of row numbers (or all rows) that should be displayed | all
toPlaceholder | the snippet output is assigned to a placeholder named as the template variable (i.e. [+element+]), single items are assigned to placeholders named as the template variable followed by the row number (i.e. [+element.1+]). Normal snippet output is suppressed.  (Note 2) | 0
randomize | random order of displayed rows | 0
published | display only multiTVs of published (1), unpublished (0) or both (2) kind of documents | 1
emptyOutput | return empty string if the multiTV is empty, otherwise return outer template | 1

The default templates for outer template and row template could be defined in the config file for the custom template variable. These custom definitions could be overwritten by *rowTpl* and *outerTpl* in snippet call. Both template chunks are parsed by PHx (chunkie class).

Placeholder rowTpl:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Name | Description
---- | -----------
"fieldname" | each fieldname defined in config file could be used
iteration | contains the row number of the current multiTV element
docid | value of docid parameter or current document id

Placeholder outerTpl:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name | Description
---- | -----------
wrapper | contains the output of all rows
docid | value of docid parameter or current document id

Part 3: PHx modifier
================================================================================
Since the JSON string in multiTV starts with `[[` and ends with `]]` (Note 1), you *can't* check if the multiTV is empty by i.e. ```[*multittvname:ne=``:then=`not empty`*]```. 

But you could to use the PHx modifier in the folder `phx-modifier` in that case. Move the two files to `assets/plugins/phx/modifiers` and call it like this ``[+phx:multitvisempty=`tvname|docid`:then=`xxx`:else=`yyy`+]`` or like this ``[+phx:multitvisnotempty=`tvname|docid`:then=`xxx`:else=`yyy`+]``. If the docid is not set it defaults to current document.

Notes:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. The JSON string the multitv is converted to starts with `[[` and ends with `]]` so the MODX parser thinks it contains a snippet and you can't place the template variable directly in the template.
2. If the snippet output is assigned to placeholder and PHx is installed, the page should be set to uncached and the Snippet should be called cached. Otherwise PHx will 'steal' the placeholders before the Snippet could fill them.
3. MODX does not like `=`, `?` and `&` in snippet parameters. If the template code has to use those signs, put the template code in a chunk or change the default templates in the config file.
4. ManagerManager expects a custom tv field to be an input tag. Because of single and double quote issues the field containing the multiTV value is a textarea.
